>> Speaker 1: Let's kind of
figure out how to translate this
into basically Vega-Lite language.
So each of the marks, so these are bars.
So we would tell Vega-Lite that the mark
is bars and then in terms of encoding,
because we want it to be on the x axis,
we want it to be.
Do you want it to be IMDB rating.
Do you have any preference of mediscore,
metacrique, rotten tomato.
Should we do IMDB rating, well,
let's do metascore, cuz it's out of 100.
And maybe it would give us
a little bit more granularity.
But I think when we're
actually doing this,
we would kind of think through about and
do research about like what each of
these scores taken into consideration.
And then, IMDB rating is probably
all like general audience.
I think metascore,
I'm sorry, I think rotten tomatoes
takes into account critics.
I'm not quite sure what the difference is.
But when we're actually doing
the synthesis actually a project for us,
we would take that into consideration to
make a decision about which one to use.
But right now,
let's just go with metascore.
Cuz it's probably the easiest to clean.
So on one end is the middle score and
so for this one,
we wanted to be, in the Y axis we
wanted to be the total number of wins.
And so let's think about that.
That means that this is a,
it has to be bin, right?
And,
>> Speaker 1: Then the y,
so the x-axis is a bin.
And let's, I'm going to look up on how
to do a histogram, with Vega-Light.
Let's do that.
So there are some,
look at that IMDB rating
they've used this dataset too [LAUGH].
Okay, so
what we have to do when we want a bin
is apparently all we have
to do is say bin is true.
We have to say the type and metascore
type is quantitative
which is what we figured
out before.
>> Speaker 1: And
we figured out that the field
we want is metascore.
And then in terms of the y,
we're aggregating,
so we're aggregating the movies, but
I think we're going to be
aggregating by a field and
that field will be the number of wins.
And we have to calculate
the number of wins.
So I think what we need to
do is aggregate by count.
And we need to,
>> Speaker 1: By the type,
again, the number of wins
we agreed was quantitative.
And we need to be able to aggregate
by count for only the field of wins.
So let's give this a try.
Actually, is this going to work out?
>> Speaker 2: You need to pull wins
from for drive
>> Speaker 1: Well, that, but
also when you have something that's bind,
it's going to be the number of movies.
It's not going to be the number of wins.
So it might have to be that we,
I think this is one of
the things you suggested, right?
Coloring by the number of wins or
something.
And so, it might have to be like
a quantitative, like one of those
sequential scales that go from lighter
to darker depending on how many wins.
But now I'm actually wondering
should this be a scatter plot?
>> Speaker 2: It seems like we could,
this is going to represent
the number of wins just fine, but
if we want to represent the wins by
category We'll have to add the array.
It seems to me like this will work for our
original task of producing a histogram,
because winds will be our y axis, so
we'll get the total.
>> Speaker 1: Well,
so the wings, remember, with a histogram.
The range is going to be the number
of records that are in that bin.
So if we want to have the y
axis be the number of wins,
that's not going to be the same.
That won't be a histogram anymore.
So we can only do what we
want to do probably with
a scatter plot because both
of them are quantitative.
>> Speaker 1: Let's give
this a try anyways, and
let's see if we can map
the number of wins to colors.
Let's try and do that.
>> Speaker 1: Yes,
so let's try and do bin still and
then aggregate is count.
But let's try and
see if we can do a color.
So we can do color.
If you look at documentation,
I think you can do, one of the things that
you can do is
>> Speaker 1: set
color as
>> Speaker 1: So
for stack bar charts,
you can take a look and they'll use color.
And you can say, the field,
>> Speaker 1: Would be the number of wins.
And the type would be quantitative,
and let's see how they draw that and
let's see if that would be a good
chart to explore our question.
I think if not,
then what we would want to do in a real
situation is try out a few other charts
that might reflect this data better,
but I think if not let's move
onto a few of the other charts.
So let's do this together
>> Speaker 1: so
if you go into observables
the way that we would.
So the first thing we wanna do,
this question was exploring
if there is any relation.
The question is any relation
between number of wins and
popularity.
>> Speaker 1: Between
number of wins and popularity.
So the very thing we're going
to have to do is get the data
and for each of the data we want to
just pull out the number of wins.
And then, we want the metascore.
So let's do that together.
>> Speaker 1: And
I'm going to call it data,
let's say winsMetascores.
You can call it anything else you want.
And for this exercise,
I'm going to use LoDash,
just because I'm the most comfortable
processing data with LoDash.
But you can use anything you want, Vanilla
JobScript any other utility library.
And for this one I think all
we have to do is map the data
and then get the number of wins.
So that should be some regex,
I think, so we just want to match
wins is equal to and
I'm going to need your help with regex,
d.Awards, is it awards?
Yeah, okay, so d.Awards, and
then I'm going to copy over
one of these as an example.
So the string looks like this,
d.Awards.match and the regex should be.
>> Speaker 1: Let's see, I want to grab.
And so that should be in the group.
So that should be in parens.
And I want to grab whatever digits, right?
And then wins, after.
>> Speaker 1: That should,
do you think that would work?
That should work maybe, right?
And then let's see, and I don't need that
to be case sensitive and I don't need
that to match globally because there's
only one place that I want it to match.
So actually let me make it digits
that I want to grab and then win.
So let's see if that works at all.
And I am going to inspect element,
so that I can see
what is console logged.
>> Speaker 1: Let's see if this works.
Ooh, cool, that did work, look at that!
So then I want, I'm going to say
let wins of equal to either,
well equal to, so
the one that I actually
want is the index one.
So that should then get me.
Wow, look at some of these that 173, 93?
So actually, can I make a suggestion?
A change to this chart.
So I think as soon as you say
something that's relation,
that probably means a scatterplot.
So let's try and
turn this into a scatterplot instead.
And so, let's say, let's also make
sure that the wins is a integer.
Actually, hold on.
So let's say wins,
make sure that wins is a number.
And then the score,
the metascore should be pretty easy.
Hopefully, it should just be d.
Turn that into an integer also and then.
Did I spell that correctly,
d.Metascore with a capital M.
And let's see what that gives.
Cannot read property one of node,
so that's good.
Okay, so
sometimes there's no matches it seems.
So what I'm gonna do is
say wins is equal to,
either they match something,
and if they do,
let me get the number and
if not, if there's no matches,
then let's just make that 0.
>> Speaker 1: And there we go.
Wow, one of them has 111!
Just because I'm curious let's also,
we're not gonna use title,
but let's just also grab it.
111, well Titanic, apparently.
So [LAUGH] and this is fun and
I hope is fun for
you too and look at that 111 wins and
75 metascore.
That's really interesting, okay, so
how is this so far,
this part is this makes sense,
right, the data part?
Okay, so now let's figure out
the scatterplot together,
and actually, I think
a scatterplot should be quite easy.
There we go.
>> Speaker 1: Let me pin this,
so that you can see that code.
And then what I'm gonna do is,
so to use Vega-Light and
observables, they have
pretty good integration.
All you have to do is say vegalite and
then you pass in, I believe an object.
The very first thing you need
to do is tell it a data source.
So you say, in the object,
you say data and you say, in this case,
we're passing in the JSON values
themselves, so say values.
And then we called that
data wins metascores.
And then, if we were to do a scatterplot,
it's going to be.
Oops, sorry.
It's going to be a bunch of points, right?
>> Speaker 1: And then,
in terms of the encoding
>> Speaker 1: The x axis,
we said earlier,
was going to be the metascore.
So let's say x axis, and
remember we just need type,
and that is quantitative.
And we nee the field and
we decided that was the score.
And then the y axis we said
the type is also quantitative.
And the field is the number of wins.
>> Speaker 1: Wow,
that's cool.
>> Speaker 1: There's
something that has 200 plus wins.
So one of the things that I haven't quite
figured out how to do with Vega-Light yet
is have a hover interaction where
you can see that individual node.
So like I'm really curious
about who has 200+ wins.
And then almost 100% score.
But I haven't quite figured out how to do.
I'm sure it's somewhere
in the documentation.
I haven't quite figured it
out how to look into it yet.
But like this, what you think about this?
Is this interesting?
Yeah, I think there seems to be
generally an upward trend and
it makes sense,
because the ones that don't like look
some of them are blockbusters
that have no wins and
only 20 something percent score.
And a lot of them are down here.
A lot of the ones, I think,
that are 80 or less are,
in the, it looks like, kind of like 20.
And that's still a lot.
That still feels like a lot.
But as soon as it hits 80s, look at.
There is a positive correlation,
so that's good to know.
And look at how many wins
they're scoring over here.
I wonder if our view would be
a little bit different this way.
Yeah, if you want to look at
it a little bit differently,
look at how easy it was and
Vega-Lite to like make that switch.
Whereas like,
maybe if you were building this out.
Well, so to actually give context about
why we're doing it in Vega-Lite actually
before these few months when I started
researching for this workshop and
then I started thinking about how
I want to teach data exploration.
The way that I actually do data
exploration used to be build something
from d3 from scratch.
I'll do exactly what you just did, where
you draw some, I would sketch some ideas.
I'll think about a question and
I'll sketch some ideas,
but I'll build something
from debrief from scratch.
And you can imagine that was
really really inefficient, and
it would take me like half a day.
And then after half a day I might
have something interesting, but
oftentimes I would have something
that's not quite interesting.
And then, I would have this
iterative process where I learn
about the data more and
more as I kind of iterate through it.
But it still took a week or two for
me to kind of find something
that I want to grab.
But as I was researching for
this workshop and
I started teaching myself Vega-Lite,
so that I can teach you Vega-Lite.
I'm really loving how quickly
I can just sketch an idea and
put it on to the screen,
get the data in there, see the data,
see the shape of the data, be able to
switch these encodings really quickly,
switch between charts really quickly.
And it's actually really brought down
my data exploration down from a week or
two to a day or two.
And so I'm really happy I did this.
And I hope,
even if Vega-Lite isn't where you go, and
I suggest Vega-Lite only
because it works so well.
I think it really makes sense for
web developers because it's
pretty much in the JSON format.
But even if Vega-Lite is not for you,
there's R, there's Python, there's
a lot of different options where you can
do these kinds of data explorations.